Git access tokens docs improvement (#619)
dataform-co/dataform: content/docs/dataform-web/guides/git-access-tokens.md

title: Git access tokens
---

Git access tokens are important for Dataform projects linked to remote git providers, such as GitHub. They provide authentication for accessing and controlling the git project.

> ## User authentication 🙋‍♂️🙋‍♀️

Reviewer: No emoji

User access tokens are used to authenticate git access of Dataform projects during project manipulation.

Without a valid access token, users will be unable to do things such as create branches.

They must be configured to have both **read and write access** to your remote repository.

They can be added or removed on the **user settings page**.

## Scheduler authentication ⏱

Scheduler access tokens are used to authenticate git access of Dataform projects when running automated schedules.

Without a valid access token, the scheduler will not be able to read the contents of the project and perform the run.

They must have **read** access to your remote repository.

They can be updated on the **project settings page**, within the app.

> For smaller projects (e.g. 5 or fewer people), it's ok to use a user's personal access token to authenticate the scheduler, but for larger teams a **bot account** is recommended.

Reviewer: use Machine User term than Bot account

> For smaller projects (e.g. 5 or fewer people), it's ok to use a user's personal access token to authenticate the scheduler, but for larger teams a **machine user** is recommended. If you have a DevOps team, ask them about whether a machine user already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For small number of collaborators (e.g. 3 or fewer people) on a project, it's ok to use a user's personal access token to authenticate the scheduler, but for larger teams a **machine user** is recommended. If you have a DevOps team, ask them about whether a machine user already exists.
```

### Bot accounts

Bot accounts are generally regular user accounts, but used purely to run automated (or triggered) tasks.

> Some of the advantages of using a bot account include:

Reviewer: Rephrase the reason for machine user from here: https://github.com/dataform-co/dataform/pull/620/files

> If a user's personal access token is used, and then they leave the organization or their permission is revoked, then the scheduler will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user's personal access token is used, and if they leave the organisation or their permission is revoked, then the scheduler will fail to run the project schedules.
```

Author: `If a user's personal access token is used and they leave the organization or their permission is revoked, then the scheduler will fail.`?

- Highly configurable access privileges, which can prevent misbehavior.

- It becomes easier to distinguish between user actions and automated ones.

> Before making a bot account on GitHub, please read the [TOCs](https://help.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service#3-account-requirements).

Reviewer: We don't need this if we provide the link to machine user page from Github

Author: I'm leaving it in to avoid liability; `You may maintain no more than one free machine account in addition to your free User Account`, so if someone does and we get in trouble, we can say we told them not to

> Before making a machine user on GitHub, please read the [TOCs](https://help.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service#3-account-requirements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating a machine user on GitHub, please read the [TOCs] (https://help.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service#3-account-requirements) from GitHub.
```

Author: `Before creating a machine user on GitHub, please read their [TOCs](https://help.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service#3-account-requirements).`?

They can be updated on the **project settings page**, within the app.

For smaller projects (e.g. 5 or fewer people), it's ok to use a user's personal access token to authenticate the scheduler, but for larger teams a **machine user** is recommended. If you have a DevOps team, ask them about whether a machine user already exists.

### Machine user

> machine users are generally regular user accounts, but used purely to run automated (or triggered) tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Machine users are generally regular user accounts, but used purely to run automated (or triggered) tasks.
```
